# Testing the Authors Component

## This is a stress test for the Authors Component

### Render as a Grid or a List

<Tout>

<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>

</Tout>

<Tout>

<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>

<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>

<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>


<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>



</Tout>

<Tout>

<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>

<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>

<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 
If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>


<Box>

### Submit your own idea


If you've got an idea and want some budget, you'll need to fill in a proposal. 
We'll walk you through submitting your ideas and let you know what to expect
from the process. 

<Button to="/">
Start proposal
</Button>

</Box>



</Tout>
